Now I would like to show you that you can nest lists.
So in Python it is allowed to nest lists.
This allows you to model a metrics for example and this lesson you will learn how to nest lists and
then access the elements accordingly.
So let's create a list and let's say we have a list and in there I would like to have a list of cities
and I would like to have a list of cities from the U.S. another list list of cities from Munich Hungary
or stuff like that.
So let's say I start off with New York then I have Chicago to go and then I have Los Angeles and so
forth.
So I can go ahead and create a list with lists.
So this one contains a list of two list elements all New York blah blah blah.
So these three are elements within list at the index zero of my list one and now index one I have another
list which says Budapest then perch and so on.
So if I would like to access a list element I can just say List 1 and 0 and let's see we have New York
Chicago Los Angeles.
But what if I want to specifically access Chicago.
Well then I can simply say 0 1.
So I'm accessing Chicago.
So within the list at which position is Chicago well it's index position 1.
So New York is in its position zero and Chicago is in the index position 1.
And where is this list in total.
Well it's the index position zero of my list 1.
So that's how you can access it.
Now we can also use lists and dictionaries.
So let's go ahead and create a dictionary called students.
And now in there I can store loads of information.
So for example I can go ahead and say something like informatics is connected to all the students who
study this subject so I'm going to have a list where I have Max and Monica as you can see there is another
topic which should be history for example.
And there I have the students Eric and Paula.
All right.
So that's what you generally also can do so you can use lists as the value of a dictionary but you cannot
use that as the key of a dictionary.
So the key of a dictionary has to be an immutable type.
All right so let's print those out let's print the students who study informatics and here have to be
careful that I write a comment correctly or informatics because otherwise I get an error.
As you know and here Max and Monica and now I'm going to print to students who study history history.
And let's run it them we see Eric and Paula.
So that's just something that I also wanted to show you when it comes to nesting lists.